*************Abstact for ecommerce website************
 > Abstract

The drivers for electronic commerce are both technological (under the tremendous
pressure of innovation) and business oriented. This paper will highlight some
guidelines for companies who are entering into E-commerce to create an E-commerce
strategy or who already have an E-commerce presence to revise their existing
strategy.

E-Commerce is now seen as a reality for many businesses and a normal part of a
business plan. The immediate benefits, in terms of cost savings, efficiencies and
enhanced profitability are clear at every stage in the supply chain. Adopting
ebusiness is no longer a competitive advantage, but a normal business process, without
which an enterprise is unlikely to survive in the New economy. Year 2000 saw
many Dot-com companies built up and many companies going into E-commerce
however now it is a different story, more and more companies are failing, and
investors are becoming cautious to invest money into Internet ventures. There is more
cash needed then was expected. Some of them had to get on the bandwagon as
everybody else were and didn't want to be left behind, and now that the bubble has
burst they are facing the consequences. This paper will aim to help companies to
realize what they need to follow to have a successful business if they plan well and
have a good strategy.

This paper also identifies that implementing an E-commerce strategy is neither
straightforward nor cheap, for example it comprises a complete rethink of traditional
modes of behavior, the need and importance to involve internal staff and external
suppliers and customers right from the conceptual stage, need to re-evaluate
company's core competences, and requires substantial investment in IT.

Executives of successful E-commerce companies need to be strategic thinkers
focusing on customers, markets, and competitive positioning, as well as on internal
operations. Determination of a suitable E-commerce strategy begins with
identification of the opportunities and risks. The task of tracking the changing
environments, understanding customer groups, requires formulating strategies and
planning their implementation.

The paper follows a structure of exploring ideas of having an online presence, going
onto defining the business aims, looking at the feasibility of the project, where the
industry environment and competitor analysis will be looked at moving on to the
planning and design phase, and finally implementing and assessment which needs to
be done continually as an iterative process to learn from mistakes, improve and
further meet new aims. Throughout the various stages set of questions have been
included that needs to be asked and answered by the organization.

  > Conclusions

Strategic planning clarifies what an E-commerce project should do or focus on, with
respect to the company's mission and the given business environment. It is essential
to have a well thought out strategy for E-commerce. It is important to identify the
critical success factors, important to carry out a pilot study and carrying out Web
assessment, to get feedback. Long-term winners on the web will be those who
remember that the business fundamentals still apply. 

  1:Showing steps used to formulate E-commerce Strategy

	Step 1: Initiation
	Step 2:Aims
	Step 3:Feasibilty 
	Step 4:Planning/Design
	Step 5: Implementation
	Step 6: Strategy assessment